So one of the tools that I use all the time
on the command line is this tool called JSON.
Now as you can probably guess from the name,
it's for json manipulation, filtering, and so on.
And this is kinda the simpler version of tools
I've found for json manipulation.
And it's one tool that maybe you've heard of before.
It's called jq, it's much more advanced version
of what json is and has a little bit
of its own language for doing processing.
I've had a few tries with jq, I haven't really had the time
to kind of grock how to do the manipulation.
And I tend to find this json tool a bit easier to work with.
Although sometimes I find I have to pipe the json command
into itself multiple times to get what I'm looking for.
But we'll see that in a moment.
So, you're can instal this tool using npm.
Npm instal dash dash global json
and that's because we're gonna make it a utility
that's used throughout your operating system.
And here's a few examples of it kind of being used.
There's piping, a plain text file into the json command.
And it's kind of outputting it out as json.
You can do look ups on it.
You can do manipulation and filtering.
And we'll look at that as well.
And just a little bit further down is the
documentation for this.
This is the same as typing man json,
you get the same output, just a little bit easier
to kind of navigate in the browser.
So, we're gonna have a look at that now.
I downloaded this file, or I've hit the vimeo API
and gotten this content and I've stored it in vimeo.json.
So if we cat this out, you'll see what I've got.
And a whole load of json.
And it's valid json, but it's a little bit tricky to read,
and to be honest, if I want to grab all of the links
or the HD URLs for the course,
I don't really know where to begin.
So, the first thing I'm gonna do is pipe
that straight into json.
And what you see now,
it automatically structures it out for me.
But still, I don't really know kind of how it's structured.
And json has this nice command called keys,
which will just list out all the keys over level.
So if I do that, now I can see
okay I've got information about the pages
and probably what I'm looking for is in data.
So I'm just gonna do json data,
and I'm gonna pipe it to less,
just a little glimpse as to what it's gonna give me.
And we can see, okay we've got an array.
And we have these objects with lots of things inside of it.
And really what I'm looking for is this files array.
So inside of data, I have to pipe to json again.
Type files, and this won't work, it's gonna blank response
because there's no files property in data, data is an array.
So if we pipe this into out1.json, have a quick look.
You'll see, at the top corner here, it's an array.
And if I was looking for dot files,
it's not a property on the array, so we need to
run it through json again and I'm gonna use this -a.
And -a will, what does it do, is it merge?
No it's not merge.
Basically what it does is...
Itemises, I saw it kind of described
in a pretty nice way earlier.
It's sort of like that, I mean
although we're using different command.
a will put each object on a single,
it'll basically just collect all the drop through objects
so that they're at their root.
So we're not longer dealing with an array anymore.
And I can look up the property files, and that'll give me
each of the files property in each of my vimeo publications.
So we run that, you can now see it works.
And you'll see, we're getting back an array.
But I think, if we put this into out2.
Have a quick look at that file.
You might see.
(muttering)
Just there, yeah, so line 48 and 49,
you can see where the two arrays
have butted next to each other.
So this one from 48 upwards is one of the files' properties,
and then the next one is the next file's properties.
So it's not valid json at this point.
Okay, so now we have this,
basically an array of arrays,
we need to group those all together, and we're gonna philtre,
we're gonna do a conditional philtre for all of the HD files.
So I need to use this group and array together.
So piping ga, if I do less again, we should see is
now I have all of these video objects, the file objects,
but they're all just objects by themselves.
So now I can actually do kind of look ups.
What were we just looking at?
Less, let's get secure link.
This is probably what we'll actually need to get.
So we've got loads of secure links,
but then not just the HD ones, but every single one of them.
So what I'm gonna do is add -c and this,
this refers to each object.
Dot height equals 1440, which is our HD videos.
And now just grab the secure link, and there we go.
Quite a few less, I only grabbed 10 vimeo objects.
We just have a quick look.
We see, out of those, there are 9 HD URLs.
So you can see, I've kind of,
I've taken this concatenated, like flat json structure,
and I passed it through multiple passes of the json command
until I get what I'm looking for.
In this instance, I was looking for these links.
And just one last thing as well.
When you instal json for the first time,
when you cat out the vimeo file and pipe it json.
It won't be syntax highlighted.
You'll just get like a plain text version.
And the reason I have syntax highlighting
is because I installed this tool ccat or C-cat.
So you just do a brew instal ccat, and what'll give you is
if you run everything through ccat,
it'll syntax highlight by default.
And I actually have this alias in place,
so alias cat = ccat.
If you look at my command right here, which cat.
It's aliased to ccat, and what ccat will do
is syntax highlight files.
If we look at package for instance,
it highlights the json.
Do the same thing with JavaScript,
other syntax files I think.
It sort of highlights, not HTML or CSS,
but I'm sure there are other things
for doing that kind of thing.
So, yup, definitely useful.
I use it all the time, like I said,
I do quite often pipe multiple json together.
If you want to look to go further, take a look at jq.
There is also this kind of playground
that you can experiment with
to try and kind of get your command right
and seek out as a bonus.